For any customer centric organisation, customer churn/retention analysis is going to be extremely valuable. It is a market reality that the banks and other financial institutions are battling to attract each other's customers while retaining their own. Thus, Customer churn reduction is the central concern of most banking organisations as switching costs to the customer are low and acquisition cost to the organisation is high. Churn reduces profitability as it means potential loss of future revenue and also losing the invested costs of acquisition. On the other hand, long term customers contribute to profitability through mere continued association as they are less costly to serve and through additional services and referrals. It is important to have data that underlies construction of purchase decision and also the underlying loyalty hooks. So a good deal of marketing budget is allocated to engage customer on an ongoing basis and prevent churn by designing new plans and offering freebees, discounts etc. Thus, it is important to predict the customers who are likely to churn and develop appropriate modalities for retention. 

An international bank has a business problem with customer retention and observed high churn rates. The bank observed that alarming number of existing customers exit while it is getting increasingly difficult to acquire new customers. So they want to understand the hidden patterns in their customer behaviour by use of customer data which has early warning signs.This helps understand the drivers behind considering an alternative. The variables could be demographic, perception or behavioural.
